README.md, before:

# Authentication Project

## Topics

- Authentication.
- Express Middleware.
- Password Hashing.
- Sessions
- Cookies

## Description
Use `Node.js`, `Express` and `Knex` to build an API that provides **Register** and **Login** functionality using `SQLite` to store _User_ information. Make sure the password is not stored as plain text.

## Assignment

### Complete the following endpoints:

| Method | Endpoint      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| POST   | /api/register | Creates a `user` using the information sent inside the `body` of the request. **Hash the password** before saving the user to the database.                                                                                                                                                 |
| POST   | /api/login    | Use the credentials sent inside the `body` to authenticate the user. On successful login, create a new session for the user and send back a 'Logged in' message and a cookie that contains the user id. If login fails, respond with the correct status code and the message: 'You shall not pass!' |
| GET    | /api/users    | If the user is logged in, respond with an array of all the users contained in the database. If the user is not logged in repond with the correct status code and the message: 'You shall not pass!'.            |

### After we cover the lecture on **sessions** and **cookies**, use them to keep a record of logged in users across requests.


## Stretch Problem

- Write a piece of **global** middleware that ensures a user is logged in when accessing _any_ route prefixed by `/api/restricted/`. For instance, `/api/restricted/something`, `/api/restricted/other`, and `/api/restricted/a` should all be protected by the middleware; only logged in users should be able to access these routes.
- Build a React application that implements components to register, login and view a list of users. Gotta keep sharpening your React skills.

Commit message:

token now generates with login

README.md, after:

# Authentication using JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)

## Topics

- Authentication.
- Express Middleware.
- JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).
- Hashing Passwords.

## Description

In this project we'll implement a full authentication workflow (register/login/logout/restrict endpoint) using `Node.js`, `Express`, `SQLite` and `JSON Web Tokens` on the server.

### Download Project Files

- **Fork** and **Clone** this repository.
- **CD into the folder** where you cloned the repository.
- Do your magic!

## Assignment

Use Node.js, Express and Knex to build an API that provides _Authentication_ functionality using SQLite to store _User_ information.

The user schema should include: `username`, `password` and `department`. The `department` should be a string used to group the users. No need for a `departments` table or setting up relationships.

Use **JSON Web Tokens** to keep users authenticated across requests.

### Design and build the following endpoints.

| Method | Endpoint      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------ | ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| POST   | /api/register | Creates a `user` using the information sent inside the `body` of the request. **Hash the password** before saving the user to the database.                                                                                                                            |
| POST   | /api/login    | Use the credentials sent inside the `body` to authenticate the user. On successful login, create a new JWT with the user id as the subject and send it back to the client. If login fails, respond with the correct status code and the message: 'You shall not pass!' |
| GET    | /api/users    | If the user is logged in, respond with an array of all the users contained in the database. If the user is not logged in respond with the correct status code and the message: 'You shall not pass!'.                                                                  |

## Stretch Problem

- add the code necessary so that when a client makes a `GET` request to `/api/users` the server only returns documents with the `same department` as the logged in user. For example if the logged in user belongs to the finance department, then only users with the _finance_ department should be returned; if the logged in user is in _sales_ only users on the sales department should be returned.
- implement a React client:
  - use `create-react-app` to generate a application to server as the client for the Web API.
  - inside the React application add **client-side routes** and components for `signup`, `signin` and showing the `list of users` stored in the database.
  - the `/signup` route should provide a form to gather `username`, `password` and `department` for the user and make a `POST` request to the `/api/register` route on the API. If the user is created successfully, take the returned token, save it to the browser's local storage and redirect the user to the `/users` route, where they should see the list of users.
  - the `/signin` route should provide a form to gather `username` and `password` for the user and make a `POST` request to the `/api/login` route on the API. Upon successful login, persist the returned token to the browser's local storage and redirect the user to the `/users` route.
  - the `/users` route should read the token from local storage and make a `GET` request to the `/api/users` route on the API attaching the token as the value of the `Authorization` header.
  - provide a button to `sign out` that will remove the token from local storage.
- add any extra functionality to make the application more user friendly like showing a message and redirecting to `/signin` if an unauthenticated user tries to access the list of users in the `/users` route.
